Okay, we're on again.
Go ahead.
I mean, the first time I got in this book, I got to a point and I realized it was time for me to skip ahead six months.
It was a very strange feeling and I thought, oh my, can I do that?
Can I really just...
skip six months in my character's life I was so used to and to just sort of going minute by minute in Wonder Boys or hour by hour the longest skip you make is when Grady goes to sleep and wakes up the next morning and then the first book which takes place over the course of a summer there's never a skip longer than a few weeks I would say so it was a kind of exhilarating sensation to realize I had the sweep of time
at my command.
Are you mindfully exploring male relationships in the writing or is it just kind of the way it's happening?
Yeah, I don't really, I just, those are the stories that I choose or that choose me.
It would probably be a more accurate way of describing it.
And in this new book I'm writing, it's set, it concerns the golden age of a comic book.
It is fun.
It's a lot of fun.
So all my main characters are men.
I mean, that's who was a male business, still is.
mail business.
Have you seen the stamps that they put out?
I love those stamps.
They're beautiful.
So, once again, I mean, they have wives and lovers and so on, but I mean, I didn't deliberately say, oh, I'm going to write another book about guys or anything.
I just got interested in those men.
Well, if you're going to write a book about World War II in the Pacific, I mean...
Right, exactly.
This is what you've chosen.
Right.
I mean, you have your Deborah Carr character.
That's right.
But it is a valid observation that you do feel comfortable, I guess, exploring.
Yeah, I mean, it's just something that interests me.
I don't know.
I guess I feel if I had to stop and think about it or analyze it or try to justify it in some way, I would say that the relations between men and women have been extensively covered from every possible
approach and literary style and literary bent.
But it seems to me like, although there certainly has been plenty of material going back to the Iliad about relationships among men, the tendency has been generally limited, or not the tendency, the approach has been limited to a sort of small range of like the war novel, like the Iliad say, or the father-son
Struggle is a very common theme, also going back to the Greeks, and that's kind of it in a way, or the relationship between brothers, all tending to be handled in a very male way, I would say.
I put quotes around that.
I'm glad you did that.
I think that there's plenty of room for new approaches.
I think my style and my bent is less conventionally male with quotes around it maybe than previous ones.
I think I bring a little more of a
I think the fact that I see a spectrum of male feeling running from, say, father-son relationships, I don't know which way the spectrum runs, but to male lovers, and that's all part of a continuum of feelings that men can have for each other that goes from brothers to best friends to lovers to fathers and sons, that I see that all as being sort of part of the same thing.
I don't know how, that doesn't seem like a heavily trafficked part of the territory to me.
I imagine the response from the news to the first book has been very encouraging.
Yeah, it has.
And this is, I would suggest a continuation.
an important element of your leadership, too.
I mean, you have reached the crossover, the general leadership, I guess.
Yeah, I think so.
It seems that way.
You brought a core constituency along.
Yeah.
Which is a better accomplishment, isn't it?
Yeah, I mean, one of the best things for me has been getting some response from
When I made the email address possible, I started hearing from people that had seemed like they had wanted to be in touch with me since Mysteries of Pittsburgh came out, telling me that they were gay, or they weren't gay, but that when they had a really hard time right when they happened to read the Mysteries of Pittsburgh, I got a few letters from people saying that it had just landed perfectly when they needed it, because I think it
it's not a very tortured book yeah i mean the general mind does not involve somebody dying right right or like killing themselves or or becoming a priest no there's nothing it's a it's a pretty pretty normal it's about reaching a state of equipoise i think with oneself and i think that that that
the fact that that was helpful to people a few people at a certain point in their lives that made me feel maybe the best that anything that's happened to me since i became a writer that undoubtedly came along at the right time i don't think that book could have been written 15 to 20 years no i think you're right it's sort of a it had to build on a lot of more sort of tortured or more sort of um
aggressively proud kind of visions.
And it necessitated a degree of acceptance, I think, because it wasn't there.
Right.
Yeah, so that had to be to the point where Newsweek could do a big roundup of hot, young, gay writers.
I love that.
I'll use it in my piece.
Maybe you can call Walter Clemens and get a quote from a... He's an old guy, see.
I know, he was old then.
Yeah, he's always the old guy.
It's funny, it was Prescott and Clemens were the two guys in the newspaper.
Right.
Um, I don't think we have to spend too much time because I get lots of quotes.
Okay.
I wonder if you'd describe my book.
Oh, I'd be happy to.
Tell me your email address.
I'm coming online pretty soon.
Oh, good.
Yeah, good.
Tell me how you spell your last name.
When do you project the next book?
I think it'll be two years at least before I finish writing it.
You don't feel rushed by
in terms of, did you feel any kind of, the time was passing, like you had to get this book out?
Oh yeah, I mean, you know, I was five years at work on the one I put aside, so when I put that aside, I was looking.
Were you fearful that people would have forgotten who you were?
I mean, it was, that just, seven years separated the two books, that seemed like a shockingly long period of time to me.
It did or it didn't?
It did, yeah.
But I mean, two years to me seems like, you know, that's reasonable.
I'm just doing a proposal for my next book now.
I'm sorry, do that again?
I mean, there's nothing like staring abject failure in the face for five years to keep you from resting on your laurels or thinking that you've done great.
I was able to think I had done great for about a month and a half before I
I had to go back to work again.
That must have been something.
The first book was an auction.
Yeah, that was something.
I don't think I appreciated it at the time.
I didn't know any better.
It's amazing.